.TH xcalim 1 "2021" "X11"
.SH NAME
xcalim \- calendar with alarms and a notebook for X11
.SH SYNTAX
.B xcalim
[
.B \-toolkitoptions
][
.B \-daemon
][
.B \-editformat
.I format
][
.B \-clocktick
.I tick
][
.B \-u
.I user
][
.B \-alarmscan
]
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.TP "\w'ReverseVideoMarkNNN'u"
.B \-toolkitoptions
Includes
.IR \-bg ,
.IR \-fg ,
.IR \-rv ,
.IR \-geometry ,
see section OPTIONS of
.I man\ 7\ X
for information on them.
.TP
.B \-daemon
don't launch the main window, only run alarm routines.
.TP
.BI \-editfmt " format"
use 
.I format 
for dates in an edit window, e.g. %D.
.TP
.BI \-clocktick " tick"
set to
.I tick
seconds the update time of the main window clock.
.TP
.BI \-u " user"
View
.IR user 's
files, but with read-only access.
.TP
.B \-alarmscan
print debugging information about the alarm system on standard output.
.SH MAIN WINDOW
.de EX		\"Begin example
.ne 5
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
.nf
.ta +8u*\w'\0'u +8u*\w'\0'u +8u*\w'\0'u +8u*\w'\0'u +8u*\w'\0'u +8u*\w'\0'u
..
.de EE
.fi
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
..
The 
.IR main\ window 
consists of a header bar and the calendar.
A button in the header can be activated with a mouse click
or by using a shortcut from the table:
.EX
    Button   Shortcut  Action
    <        Left,  k  Previous month's calendar
    >        Right, j  Next month's calendar
    Memo     m         Open the memo pad
    Weekly   w         Open the weekly recurrent events window
    Current  c         Jump to the current month calendar
    Help     h, F1     Jump to the current month calendar
.EE
.LP
To add an appointment to a day, just click its box or directly
type its number. The header bar will return feedback once the first number is pressed by changing colors.
Directly press <Enter> to edit today's events.

.SH EDITING
A window pops up with a header and very simple text widget to edit calendar
entries. The default keybindings are EMACS-like and
listed in the Athena Widget Set webpage,
.IR www.x.org/releases/X11R7.7/doc/libXaw/libXaw.html#Default_Key_Bindings
and listed here for your convenience.
.EX
    Ctrl-a  Beginning Of Line        Alt-b  Backward Word
    Ctrl-b  Backward Char            Alt-f  Forward Word
    Ctrl-d  Delete Next Char         Alt-i  Insert File
    Ctrl-e  End Of Line              Alt-k  Kill To End Of Paragraph
    Ctrl-f  Forward Char             Alt-q  Form Paragraph
    Ctrl-g  Multiply Reset           Alt-v  Previous Page
    Ctrl-h  Delete Previous Char     Alt-y  Insert Current Selection
    Ctrl-j  Newline And Indent       Alt-z  Scroll One Line Down
    Ctrl-k  Kill To End Of Line      Alt-d  Delete Next Word
    Ctrl-l  Redraw Display           Alt-D  Kill Word
    Ctrl-m  Newline                  Alt-h  Delete Previous Word
    Ctrl-n  Next Line                Alt-H  Backward Kill Word
    Ctrl-o  Newline And Backup       Alt-<  Beginning Of File
    Ctrl-p  Previous Line            Alt->  End Of File
    Ctrl-t  Transpose Char           Alt-]  Forward Paragraph
    Ctrl-u  Multiply by 4            Alt-[  Backward Paragraph
    Ctrl-v  Next Page                Alt-Delete           Delete Prev Word
    Ctrl-w  Kill Selection           Alt-Shift Delete     Kill Prev Word
    Ctrl-y  Unkill                   Alt-Backspace        Delete Prev Word
    Ctrl-z  Scroll One Line Up       Alt-Shift Backspace  Kill Prev Word
.EE
Additionally, these are available:
.EX
    Button  Shortcut         Action
    Save    Ctrl-s           Save changes to file
    Delete  Ctrl-Shift-d     Delete the file      
            Shift-Insert     Paste (from primary)
.EE
You can also add data to the file by selecting a string on the
screen and clicking with
the middle button on the day box in the 
.IR main\ window.

.SH ALARMS
Alarms are fired by displaying a dialog box.
.LP
To specify an alarm,
the time format is one of 
.IR
.IR h ,
.IR hh ,
.IR hhmm ,
.IR hmm ,
.IR hh:mm ,
.IR h:mm ,
.IR hh.mm ,
.IR h.mm ;
all of these may be optionally followed by one
of
.IR A ,
.IR a ,
.IR AM ,
.IR am ,
.IR Am ,
.IR aM ,
.IR P ,
.IR p ,
.IR PM ,
.IR pm ,
.IR Pm ,
.IR pM .
Times must always be followed by at least one space or tab.
Some legal examples are:
.LP
.br
.nf
    12:00 Lunch
    1430 Meeting in the cafeteria
    2:30p Ring Mark
    7pm Pizza
    18 Leave work
.fi
.LP
Timed command execution from the data file is supported.
To trigger a command, the data part of the line starts
with an exclamation mark:
.br

    430pm !xmessage 'This is your alarm!'
.LP
The exclamation mark can also be replaced by the string '%cron'.
To make 
.I Xcalim
execute a command whenever an alarm is triggered, see the
.I Cmd
resource below.
.LP
You can make a time like 2:30 mean 14:30 by setting the resource
.I AlarmWarp
to be true.
If this is the case, an alarm hour will be promoted to a PM time if it is found
to be between the range of
zero and the value of the resource
.IR MinAlarmWarp .
.SH DIALOGS
Pop-up dialogs with Yes/No questions can be responded to using the mouse or
or the keyboard by pressing y or n.
.SH MEMO
The memo is a panel containing (1) today's events, (2) today's regular
events, i.e., those that occur weekly, and (3) notes that are not associated
with any day in particular.
It is still not keyboard traversable and may be discontinued or disassembled.
The plan is to join (1) and (2) in a 1D day view strip widget
in the main window.
.SH FILES
.LP
Data files are stored in the
.B .xcalim
directory under the user's home directory. The directory can be
changed
Each file is stored in a subdirectory containing all the data
for a particular year.
This is incompatible with 
.LP
Note that editing day files from outside of
.I Xcalim 
(with a standard text editor) will not
change the contents of any displayed the month until it is
refreshed by going back and forth.
.LP
The alarm system, however, will notice it because it polls
the alarm files every 59 seconds (by default, see the
.I Update
resource to change it).
.LP
.TP "\w'ReverseVideoMarkNNN'u"
.B $HOME/.xcalim/
Root under which the following files live.
.TP
.B xc<dd><Mon><Year>
A data file is day, month in three letter format and the year.
.TP
.B xy<Year>
A year directory.
.TP
.B xw<Day>
A data file for the weekly code, one per day.
.TP
.B memo
The memo file.
.PP
The standard resource database can be found in 
.I /etc/X11/app-defaults/XCalim.
.PP
.SH RESOURCES
Many things can be customised (colors, shortcuts, line widths)
with an X-resources file. This is typically
.I ~/.Xresources
but the name does not really matter. To "apply the changes", issue
.IR xrdb\ ~/.Xresources .
and launch a new
.IR Xcalim .
.LP
Some resources were explicitly defined by the author below;
it is pretty straightforward to tweak them. The ones
intrinsic to Athena widgets can also be tweaked, but are
difficult to fathom if you are not acquainted with X widgets
resources and hierarchy. 
The user needs to know the names of the various panels and widgets which
comprise the application. Use 
.I editres(1)
to explore and even edit on-the-fly the widget tree.
The sample resources file shipped
with this application will also prove helpful.
.I Xcalim
makes extensive use of the resource manager.
See the sample file
Resource class names are listed below;
resource instance names are identical, except the first letter is in
lower case.
The following resource manager entries are defined:
.LP
.TP "\w'ReverseVideoMarkNNN'u"
.B OtherUser
the name of the user whose calendar files will be inspected.
This is usually set by the
.B \-u
option.
.TP
.B AlarmScan
If True enables printing of alarm related debugging information
to the standard output.
Default: False.
.TP
.B ReverseVideo
If true display the output in reverse video.
Default: False.
.TP
.B ClockTick
If you specify a second hand in the main
date string and only want it updated every 30 seconds (say)
then setting the ClockTick resource to 30 will force an update for that period.
Default: 0 (derived from the
.I Format
string).
.TP
.B EditFmt
Format of the date string in the edit widgets.
Supports format characters relating to months, years and days.
The supported format characters are: %A, %a, %B, %b, %h, %D, %d, %e, %m, %n,
%t, %x, %y and %%.
Long/short day and month names are taken from the resources.
Default: "%A %d %B %Y".
.TP
.B MarkToday
If True then highlight today.
Default True.
.TP
.B TodayBackground
the background colour when marking, default Black.
.TP
.B TodayForeground
the foreground colour when marking today, default White.
.TP
.B Directory
The name of the directory under the home directory
where the day files are stored.
Default: 
.IR .xcalim .
.TP
.B XcalendarCompat
If true then subdirectories are not created in the .xcalim directory.
Default: False.
.TP
.B GiveHelp
If True than access to the help information is given.
If False, help buttons disappear returning screen real-estate to the user.
You should resist setting this to False in the default resources file.
Default: True.
.TP
.B HelpFromFile
The
.I Xcalim
program will usually have help strings compiled into it.
These are in English and it may be desirable to use help data in other languages.
If this resource is true, it forces
.I Xcalim
to look in a data file for the help strings.
Default: False.
.TP
.B HelpFile
gives the name of the file used as a database for the help system,
accessed when
.B HelpFromFile
is True.
Default: /etc/X11/XCalim.help.
.TP
.B InitialEdit
If True then an edit window for today is automatically displayed on
startup.
Default: False.
.TP
.B InitialMemo
If True then the memo window is automatically displayed on startup.
Default: False.
.TP
.B TextBufferSize
the maximum number of bytes (= ASCII characters) which we are 
prepared to deal with in an edit window.
Default: 4004 bytes.
.TP
.B Alarms
whether or not to enable the alarm system.
Default: True.
.TP
.B ExecAlarms
if the alarm system is active,
whether or not to invoke timed-execution commands.
Default: True.
.TP
.B Update
scan the calendar files every 'update' seconds
looking for alterations in size and modification date.
When it detects that the file is altered, then
it will rebuild the internal alarm list.
Default: 59.
.TP
.B Nbeeps
When an alarm window is popped up, it is accompanied by 'Nbeeps' beeps.
Might not work on modern hardware.
Default: 3.
.TP
.B Volume
Control the loudness of the beep. Default: 50.
.TP
.B Cmd
This resource contains a command that is executed by calling the shell
when every alarm is triggered.
The command is passed the contents of the data line as one argument.
.TP
.B Countdown
contains a comma separated string of numbers; for example: 10,5,0.
The string allows the user to customise warning alarms: so in the
example, alarm boxes will be displayed 10 minutes before the stated time,
5 minutes before the stated time and exactly on the stated time.
Commands lines in the data prefaced by a '!' will always be triggered
exactly at the stated time.
Default: 10,0.
.TP
.B Autoquit
The message box can remove itself from the screen after
a specified period, this resource gives that timeout in seconds.
The 'Stick' button glues the box onto the screen, aborting the timeout.
If the resource is set to zero, then the button is unsensitive and the
box does not go away without user action.
Default: 0.
.TP
.B Alarmleft
contains a
.I printf
string that is displayed in the label at the top
of an alarm box when countdown is in operation and
there is some time before the stated time.
The time before the stated time is supplied as the second argument to printf.
Default: ''%d minutes before...''
.TP
.B Alarmnow
contains the 
.I printf
string that is displayed in the label at the top
of an alarm box when the stated time is reached.
Default: ''Time is now...''.
.TP
.B UseMemo
enables the use of the memo feature.
This defaults to ''True'', but is present to allow users to make 
.I XCalim
have as it used to.
.TP
.B MemoLeft
affects the placing of the memo button in the top level date window.
The default is 'True' meaning that the button box is placed on the left
of the date portion.
Setting this to 'False' will place the button box to the right of the
date portions.
.TP
.B MemoFile
gives the name of the memo file within the .xcalim directory.
The default is 'memo'.
.TP
.B MaxDisplayLines
controls the maximum number of text lines that can placed in the
top half of the memo panel.
The top half will normally size to the number of lines in the diary
file for the day, unless the number of lines exceed the value in
this resource.
This ensures that today's events do not dominate the memo panel.
Default: 5 lines.
.TP
.B MaxStripHeight
controls the maximum height of a strip.
A scroll bar will be added into the date part of the scrip of the contents
are larger than this number.
If unset, this defaults to the height of the screen.
Default: unset.
.TP
.B January
.B February
and so on.
The names of the long form of the month name.
.TP
.B Jan
.B Feb
and so on.
A short form of the month name - done this way because I doubt that
writing with %3s works in all languages.
Changing this resource means that the data file will no longer be
compatible with
.I xcalendar .
.TP
.B Sunday
.B Monday
and so on.
The
.I long
names of the days: Sunday, Monday etc.
These are used in titles: the top level widget, the title of an edit window
and the memo frame.
.TP
.B Sun
.B Mon
and so on.
The short names of the days \- used in date strips.
.TP
.B Private
Contains the string 'Private calendar entry' and is used when the \-u option
is in force. It is displayed when a calendar file entry is unreadable
by the caller.
.TP
.B Alarmleft
Contains the string '%d minutes before'.
.TP
.B Alarmnow
Contains the string 'Time is now...'.
.TP
.B Already
Contains the string 'Already editing %d %B %Y'
I prefer to use 'Already editing %e %B %Y'.
.TP
.B AlreadyWeekly
Contains the string 'Already editing %A'.
.PP
.LP
.SH SEE ALSO
xrdb(1), xcalev(1), xcalpr(1), xcalim_cal(1)
.PP
.SH KNOWN BUGS
Generating two confirmation dialogs (say, from a editor window) and responding
to both causes the program to crash.
.LP
Countdown alarms that would trigger in the previous day do not trigger.
For example, a 10 min countdown won't trigger for alarms between 00:00 and 00:09.
.LP
Alarms set at 00:00 may fail.
.LP
Input focus can be wrong if multiple edit windows are mapped simultaneously.
.PP
.SH AUTHORS
.LP
Qsmodo <qsmodo@github.com>        \- Xcalim
.PP
Peter Collinson, Hillside Systems \- Xcalim
.PP
This product includes software developed by the University of
California, Berkeley and its contributors.
