.TH XCALPR 1 "October 1993" "X Version 11 R5"
.SH NAME
xcalpr \- print xcalim calendar entries
.SH SYNTAX
.B xcalpr
[
.B \-c
][
.B \-x
][
.B \-f
file
][
.B \-d
.I dir
][
.B \-u
.I user
][
.I date-spec
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xcalpr
prints the contents of the
.I xcalim
files.
It is intended to be used in situations when you have no access to an
X screen.
It can also be used to generate entries for the standard UNIX
.I calendar
program.
.LP
With no arguments, it prints any entries that exist for the next seven days.
The program also reads the contents of the seven daily files and prints them
at the appropriate point in the output stream.
Each line in the output is preceded by the day of the week, the day of the
month, the month and the year.
.LP
.I Xcalpr
can be given a date specification to select months and years.
If the date spec consists of just a year number, then
all the data for that year is printed.
For example:
.br
	xcalpr 1994
.br
will print all the data for 1994.
Several years can be specified.
.LP
If you give the name of a month, then the data for that month in the current
year will be printed.
If the month is in the past, then the data for that month next year will be
printed.
For example, if
.br
	xcalpr oct jan
.br
is typed in August,
.I xcalpr
will print October in the current year and January next year.
.LP
You can select a particular year by adding the number after any months that
you need printing:
.br
	xcalpr oct nov 1994
.br
will print October and November in 1994.
.LP
There are a couple of special `month' names.
The name
.B rest
will print the data for the rest of the month, starting tomorrow.
The \fBrest\fP argument is not recognised if you give a year as a parameter.
If tomorrow happens to be the first day of the next month, then all the
data for next month will be printed.
The name
.B next
prints all the data for next month.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The
.I \-c
option causes 
.I xcalpr
to output lines suitable for input to the standard UNIX
.I calendar
program.
.LP
The
.I \-d
switch is followed by a directory name and specifies an alterative
location for your Calendar directory.
Your home directory is prepended if the name doesn't start with a slash
or a dot.
.LP
The
.I \-f
option is followed by a file name and
.I xcalpr
will write it's output to that file, rather than standard output.
.LP
The
.I \-u
option is followed by a user name and dumps their calendar files rather
than yours.
.LP
The
.I \-x
option makes \fIxcalev\fP operate with Calendar files that are compatible
with the \fIxcalendar\fP program.
.SH FILES
.PP
$HOME/Calendar/\(**
.LP
.TP "\w'xc<dd><Mon><Year>  'u"
xc<dd><Mon><Year>
A data file is day, Month in three letter format and the year.
.TP
xy<Year>
A year directory.
.TP
xw<Day>
A data file for the weekly code, one per day.
.SH SEE ALSO
xcalim(1), xcalev(1), xcalim_cal(1)
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
Copyright 1993 by Peter Collinson, Hillside Systems
All rights reserved.
.LP
This product includes software developed by the University of
California, Berkeley and its contributors.

