.TH XCALEV 1 "October 1993" "X Version 11 R5"
.SH NAME
xcalev \- load xcalim calendar files with regular dates
.SH SYNTAX
.B xcalev
[
.B \-r
][
.B \-x
][
.B \-f
file
][
.B \-d
.I dir
][
.I year
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xcalev
is used to preload the calendar files for the
.I xcalim
program with regular events in your life.
It reads lines from a file (usually called 
.B regular
stored in your
.B Calendar
directory.
Each line in the file contains three fields separated by
spaces or tabs, these are:
a month name, a day in the month and some text.
For example:
.br
.nf

	December 25	Christmas
	Dec 31		New Year's Eve
.fi
.LP
The order of the month and the day are optional, the program deduces the day
by looking whether the string contains an initial numeric character or not.
The year defaults to the current year unless the program is given a year
number as an argument.
This year cannot be abbreviated to two digits because
.I xcalim
 deals with years from year zero.
There's a rough validity check on this.
.LP
The string from the data line
is inserted in the appropriate file and will appear in your
.I xcalim
date strip.
Nothing will happen if the string already exists in the file for that day.
This means that it's safe to run 
.I xcalev
at any time, only the strings that have altered in the 
.B regular
file
will be updated.
.LP
To help with entering the same event for a number of days in one month, you
can give a day range with a hyphen
.br
.nf
	Jan 16-21	Usenix SF
.fi
.LP
If you supply the
.I \-r
option,
.I xcalev
will delete all the matching strings that it finds in the appropriate daily file.
So, if you want to make radical changes to the
.B regular
file, you
should run
.I xcalev
with the
.I \-r
option to remove all the current
entries from one year, edit the
.B regular
file and run
.I xcalev
to reload things.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The
.I \-r
option makes 
.I xcalev
delete rather than append entries.
.LP
The
.I \-x
option makes
.I xcalev
operate with Calendar files that are compatible
with the
.I xcalendar
program.
.LP
The
.I \-f
switch is followed by a filename gives an alternative name for the
.B regular
file.
If the filename does not start with a slash or a dot, then the name of
your Calendar directory will be prepended to it.
.LP
The
.I \-d
switch is followed by a directory name and specifies an alterative
location for your Calendar directory.
Your home directory is prepended if the name doesn't start with a slash
or a dot.
.SH FILES
.PP
$HOME/Calendar/\(**
.LP
.TP "\w'xc<dd><Mon><Year>  'u"
xc<dd><Mon><Year>
A data file is day, Month in three letter format and the year.
.TP
xy<Year>
A year directory.
.TP
xw<Day>
A data file for the weekly code, one per day.
.SH SEE ALSO
xcalim(1), xcalpr(1), xcalim_cal(1)
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
Copyright 1993 by Peter Collinson, Hillside Systems
All rights reserved.

