.TH PSCAL 1 "8/January/1990"
.SH NAME
pscal - generates postscript showing your calendar for given year and month
.SH SYNOPSIS:
.B pscal
[
.B \-Pprinter
] [
.B \-R
] [
.B \-r
] [
.B \-t
] [
.B \-d directory
] [
.B other printer flags
] [ month [ year ] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION:
.I Pscal
generates the Postscript showing a calendar for the specified month and year. 
The year, if omitted, defaults
to the current year. 
If both month and year are omitted, the current month is printed.
.I Year
can be between 1753
and 9999.
The
.I month
is a number between 1 and 12.
I can also be a three letter month abbreviation.
.LP
The calendar can be loaded with information from the user.
The information either comes in an `Event' file or can be
derived from files under the user's Calendar directory should this exist.
The search for this data is as follows, if any of these succeeds the data
for the calendar is taken from that source.
.IP 1)
The shell variable EFILE may be set to the name of an Event file.
.IP 2)
An event file called `Event' may exist in the current directory.
.IP 3)
The file $HOME/.holiday may exist and contain a list of events.
.IP 4)
The directory $HOME/Calendar  (or a different directory specified
with the \-d option) may exist containing XCalim files.
.LP
An event file should consist of lines of the form
.IP
month:day:message string
.LP
Messages should be 20 characters or less, with no more than 6
messages per day.
No spaces should appear from the beginning
of a line until after the second colon.
Month and day should be numbers in the obvious ranges.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\-P\fIprinter\fR" 1i
The printer may be specified with the usual \-P\fIprinter\fR syntax.
.IP "\-r" 1i
The calendar page is printed in ``landscape'' orientation (the default).
.IP "\-R" 1i
The calendar page is printed in ``portrait'' orientation; this
yields a slightly smaller image and may be more suitable for
embedding into other documents.
.IP "\-d \fIdirectory\fR" 1i
Use the given directory instead of $HOME/Calendar.
.IP "\-t" 1i
Causes the PostScript to be sent to the standard output, rather
than to the printer.  This is useful if you wish to save the
output in a file, or if you want to use options with the
.IR lpr (1)
command.
.IP "\-F \fIfont\fR" 1i
Sets the font family for the title text (the month and year).
.IP "\-f \fIfont\fR" 1i
Sets the font family for the day-of-month numbers.
.PP
Other arguments starting with `\-' are passed through to
.IR lpr (1).
.PP
Any argument whose first character is '-' is passed on to lpr.
The shell variables BANNER, LFOOT, CFOOT, and RFOOT become a
top centered banner, and left, centered, or right justified
footers respectively.  As in:
.IP
BANNER="Schedule 1" CFOOT=Preliminary pscal 4 90
.SH AUTHOR
Patrick Wood
.br
Copyright (C) 1987 by Pipeline Associates, Inc.
.br
Permission is granted to modify and distribute this free of charge.
.SH HISTORY
Original From: patwood@unirot.UUCP (Patrick Wood)
.br
Shell stuff added 3/9/87 by King Ables
.br
Made pretty by tjt 1988
.br
Holiday and printer flag passing hacks added Dec 1988 
by smann@june.cs.washington.edu 
.br
Used the better looking version with 5 rows of days rather than 6
hacked together with holiday and banner/footnotes added
by Joe (No Relation) Wood, 12/89, jlw@lzga.ATT.COM
.SH BUGS
`Pscal' doesn't work for months before 1753 (weird stuff happened
in September, 1752).
.PP
A better format for the dates of holidays would be nice.
An escape to allow holiday messages to be raw PostScript would
also be nice.
.PP
The holiday messages should be handled more intelligently (ie,
the messages should be clipped to the day).

